WIP: HACDOCS-453 adding security steps (#105)
redhat-appstudio/docs.appstudio.io: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-guides/proc_upgrade_build_pipeline.adoc

{ProductName} creates pull requests that contain updates to the pipeline definitions under the `.tekton` directory.
Run the tests on these pull requests by creating a comment containing `/ok-to-test` and then merging the changes when the tests pass.
====

.Security
To reinforce the security of your custom build pipeline, complete the following steps:

* Add an `OWNERS` file to the `.tekton` directory and list trusted contributors there.
** To learn more, see Kubernetes docs about link:https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/owners/[OWNERS files].
* Avoid commenting `/ok-to-test` on pull requests from untrusted authors, review such PRs carefully first. The `/ok-to-test` comment runs the PipelineRun, and malicious code in a PR can change your build and compromise the security of your application.
** To learn more about running the PipelineRun, see the link:https://pipelinesascode.com/docs/guide/running/#running-the-pipelinerun[Running the PipelineRun guide] from Pipelines as Code docs. 

> * Specify the PipelineRun definition source by setting the `pipelinerun_provenance` setting to `default_branch`. This way Pipelines as Code uses the PipelineRun definition from the default branch of the repository, and only contributors with default branch merge rights have access to PipelineRun.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Consider changing the PipelineRun definition source by setting the `pipelinerun_provenance` setting to `default_branch`. With this setting, Pipelines as Code uses the PipelineRun definition from the default branch of the repository (usually `main` or `master`), and only contributors with default branch merge rights can modify the PipelineRun.
```

+

> If you don’t set `pipelinerun_provenance`, you allow the default behaviour: the PipelineRun definition is fetched from a branch where the PipelineRun event is triggered. This way bad actors can change the PipelineRun definition and get access to your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don’t set `pipelinerun_provenance`, you allow the default behaviour: the PipelineRun definition is fetched from the branch where the PipelineRun event is triggered. Testing changes to the PipelineRun is easier with the default behaviour, because PipelineRun changes will be tested when a Pull Request is submitted, before merging the change.  Setting the `pipelinerun_provenance` setting to `default_branch` is safer, because a PipelineRun definition will not be tested until it has been reviewed and merged by a repository owner. 
```

{ProductName} creates pull requests that contain updates to the pipeline definitions under the `.tekton` directory.
Run the tests on these pull requests by creating a comment containing `/ok-to-test` and then merging the changes when the tests pass.
====

.Security

> To reinforce the security of your custom build pipeline, complete the following steps:

Reviewer 2: Could we add "further" here? "To further reinforce the security of your custom build pipeline..." Because the earlier part of the doc states that you customize in the first place for stronger security. So I think we should clarify that this section tells readers how to reinforce their security even more :)

> * Add an `OWNERS` file to the `.tekton` directory and list trusted contributors there.

Reviewer: Really?  We have OWNERS files at various levels in infra-deployments.

> * Add an `OWNERS` file to the `.tekton` directory and list trusted contributors there.

Reviewer 3: that's for prow not for paac.

====

.Security
To further reinforce the security of your custom build pipeline, complete the following steps:

* Add an `OWNERS` file to the root of your repository and list trusted contributors there.
** To learn more, see Kubernetes docs about link:https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/owners/[OWNERS files].
* Avoid commenting `/ok-to-test` on pull requests from untrusted authors, review such PRs carefully first. The `/ok-to-test` comment runs the PipelineRun, and malicious code in a PR can change your build and compromise the security of your application.
** To learn more about running the PipelineRun, see the link:https://pipelinesascode.com/docs/guide/running/#running-the-pipelinerun[Running the PipelineRun guide] from Pipelines as Code docs. 
* Consider changing the PipelineRun definition source by setting the `pipelinerun_provenance` setting to `default_branch`. With this setting, Pipelines as Code uses the PipelineRun definition from the default branch of the repository, usually `main` or `master`, and only contributors with default branch merge rights can modify the PipelineRun.
+

> If you don’t set `pipelinerun_provenance`, you allow the default behaviour: the PipelineRun definition is fetched from the branch where the PipelineRun event is triggered, and any contributor can get access to the PipelineRun definition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don’t set `pipelinerun_provenance`, you allow the default behaviour: the PipelineRun definition is fetched from the branch where the PipelineRun event is triggered, and any contributors can get access to the PipelineRun definition.
```

you may want to define what is the meaning of a contributor in pac terms, it means someone who is a contributor on a repository and any members of the organisation where the repository belongs.

Author: @chmouel Thanks for being attentive to details, appreciate it. 
There's also a longer list of who can run pipelinerun on CI: https://pipelinesascode.com/docs/guide/running/ (in the beginning). In our case does this whole list apply? If yes, do you think we can just link to this list? To avoid rewriting a long piece of text that already exists in other docs.

Reviewer 3: @missmesss yes, all those rules would applies on appstudios you can link there!

+
Testing changes to the PipelineRun is easier with the default behaviour because PipelineRun changes are tested when a user submits a pull request, before the merge.
+

> Setting the `pipelinerun_provenance` setting to `default_branch` is more cautious because a PipelineRun definition is tested only after a repository owner reviews and merges it. However, if the proposed change doesn't work correctly, a repository owner might need to merge a few changes to debug the PipelineRun.

Reviewer 3: it doesn't prevent as well the fact that if a negligent owner merge a malicious changes to the default branch, it will be as unsecure...... 

maybe we want to add that the owner will still to be very careful before pressing the merge button by carefully reviewing the change to the pipelineruns.

Author: OK, I'll add a sentence about extra careful reviewing, thanks.
